feat: Document dynamic sampling (#2954)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/data-management-settings/dynamic-sampling/current-status.mdx

---
title: Current Status
sidebar_order: 60

> description: "Current status and limitations of Dynamic Sampling implementations."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn the current status and limitations of Dynamic Sampling implementations."
```

---

> ## SDK support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## SDK Support
```

Sampling distributed traces requires SDK support:

- Python: (to be released) or higher
- JavaScript: (to be released) or higher

> <Alert level="info" title="Note">
> 
> You can still use Dynamic Sampling rules for any project and SDKs for both error and transaction rules. To sample distributed traces, you need to use one of the supported SDKs listed above.
> 
> </Alert>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Note>

You can still use Dynamic Sampling rules for any project and SDK for both error and transaction rules. To sample distributed traces, however, you need to use one of the supported SDKs listed above.

</Note>
```

## Current limitations

> The following section describes the known limitations and functionality particularities that might trip you when
> writing dynamic sampling rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following section describes the known limitations and functionality specifics that can create challenges when you're writing dynamic sampling rules.
```

we can create a rule with:

```
Sample at 50%  relese: ["1.2"] , environment: ["production"]
```

If we wanted to sample at 50% errors originating either from the environment "production" `or` having release "1.2" we
could still do it by writing two rules and having them one after the other

```
Sample at 50%  environment: ["production"]
Sample at 50%  relese: ["1.2"]
```

### Rule specificity is exclusively determined by the rule order

When multiple rules match a particular event sentry always uses the first rule that matches the event.

This gives a very easy to understand algorithm that does the obvious thing and does not surprise users.
As a consequence more specific rules should be places ahead of less specific rules in order to have an effect.

For example if we would want to sample events coming from the production environment at 10%, but we would like
to keep all production events from the last release we would need to specify the rules in the following order:

```
Sample at 100%  relese: ["1.2"] , environment: ["production"]
Sample at 10%  environment: ["production"]
```

Reversing the conditions would sample all production events at 10%.

> ### Transaction trace rules and Transaction rules may interact in surprising ways

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Transaction trace rules and transaction rules may interact in surprising ways
```
